This International Standard covers all types of organizations (e.g. commercial enterprises, government agencies, not-for profit organizations). This International Standard specifies the requirements for establishing, implementing, operating, monitoring, reviewing, maintaining and improving a documented ISMS within the context of the organization’s overall business risks. It specifies requirements for the implementation of security controls customized to the needs of individual organizations or parts thereof.
3.16 statement of applicability documented statement describing the control objectives and controls that are relevant and applicable to the organization’s ISMS.
4.1 General requirements The organization shall establish, implement, operate, monitor, review, maintain and improve a documented ISMS within the context of the organization’s overall business activities and the risks they face. For the purposes of this International Standard the process used is based on the PDCA model shown in Figure 1.
The ISMS documentation shall include: a) documented statements of the ISMS policy (see 4.2.1b)) and objectives; b) the scope of the ISMS (see 4.2.1a)); c) procedures and controls in support of the ISMS; d) a description of the risk assessment methodology (see 4.2.1c)); e) the risk assessment report (see 4.2.1c) to 4.2.1g)); f) the risk treatment plan (see 4.2.2b)); g) documented procedures needed by the organization to ensure the effective planning, operation and control of its information security processes and describe how to measure the effectiveness of controls
a) approve documents for adequacy prior to issue;
b) review and update documents as necessary and re-approve documents;
c) ensure that changes and the current revision status of documents are identified;
d) ensure that relevant versions of applicable documents are available at points of use;
e) ensure that documents remain legible and readily identifiable;
f) ensure that documents are available to those who need them, and are transferred, stored and ultimately disposed of in accordance with the procedures applicable to their classification;
g) ensure that documents of external origin are identified;
h) ensure that the distribution of documents is controlled;
i) prevent the unintended use of obsolete documents; and
j) apply suitable identification to them if they are retained for any purpose.
Records shall be established and maintained to provide evidence of conformity to requirements and the effective operation of the ISMS. They shall be protected and controlled. The ISMS shall take account of any relevant legal or regulatory requirements and contractual obligations. Records shall remain legible, readily identifiable and retrievable. The controls needed for the identification, storage, protection, retrieval, retention time and disposition of records shall be documented and implemented.
The responsibilities and requirements for planning and conducting audits, and for reporting results and maintaining records (see 4.3.3) shall be defined in a documented procedure.
Management shall review the organization’s ISMS at planned intervals (at least once a year) to ensure its continuing suitability, adequacy and effectiveness. This review shall include assessing opportunities for improvement and the need for changes to the ISMS, including the information security policy and information security objectives. The results of the reviews shall be clearly documented and records shall be maintained
a) results of ISMS audits and reviews;
b) feedback from interested parties;
c) techniques, products or procedures, which could be used in the organization to improve the ISMS performance and effectiveness;
d) status of preventive and corrective actions;
e) vulnerabilities or threats not adequately addressed in the previous risk assessment;
f) results from effectiveness measurements;
g) follow-up actions from previous management reviews;
h) any changes that could affect the ISMS; and
i) recommendations for improvement.
The input to a management review shall include: a) results of ISMS audits and reviews; b) feedback from interested parties; c) techniques, products or procedures, which could be used in the organization to improve the ISMS performance and effectiveness; d) status of preventive and corrective actions; e) vulnerabilities or threats not adequately addressed in the previous risk assessment; f) results from effectiveness measurements; g) follow-up actions from previous management reviews; h) any changes that could affect the ISMS; and i) recommendations for improvement. 7.3 Review output The output from the management review shall include any decisions and actions related to the following.
a) Improvement of the effectiveness of the ISMS.
b) Update of the risk assessment and risk treatment plan.
c) Modification of procedures and controls that effect information security, as necessary, to respond to internal or external events that may impact on the ISMS, including changes to:
d) Resource needs.
e) Improvement to how the effectiveness of controls is being measured.
The organization shall take action to eliminate the cause of nonconformities with the ISMS requirements in order to prevent recurrence. The documented procedure for corrective action shall define requirements for:
a) identifying nonconformities;
b) determining the causes of nonconformities;
c) evaluating the need for actions to ensure that nonconformities do not recur;
d) determining and implementing the corrective action needed;
e) recording results of action taken (see 4.3.3); and
f) reviewing of corrective action taken.
The organization shall determine action to eliminate the cause of potential nonconformities with the ISMS requirements in order to prevent their occurrence. Preventive actions taken shall be appropriate to the impact of the potential problems. The documented procedure for preventive action shall define requirements for:
a) identifying potential nonconformities and their causes;
b) evaluating the need for action to prevent occurrence of nonconformities;
c) determining and implementing preventive action needed;
d) recording results of action taken (see 4.3.3); and
e) reviewing of preventive action taken.
Rules for the acceptable use of information and assets associated with information processing facilities shall be identified, documented, and implemented.
Security roles and responsibilities of employees, contractors and third party users shall be defined and documented in accordance with the organization’s information security policy.
Control Operating procedures shall be documented, maintained, and made available to all users who need them.
Control An access control policy shall be established, documented, and reviewed based on business and security requirements for access.
Control Data input to applications shall be validated to ensure that this data is correct and appropriate.
Control Data output from an application shall be validated to ensure that the processing of stored information is correct and appropriate to the circumstances.
All relevant statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements and the organization’s approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly defined, documented, and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.
7.1  General 5.6.1 General 7.2  Review input 5.6.2 Review input 7.3  Review output 5.6.3 Review output 8  ISMS improvement 8.5 Improvement 8.1  Continual improvement 8.5.2 Continual improvement This International Standard ISO 9001:2000 ISO 14001:2004 8.2  Corrective action 8.5.3 Corrective actions 4.5.3 Non-conformity, corrective action and preventive action 8.3  Preventive action 8.5.3 Preventive actions Annex A  Control objectives and controls Annex A Guidance on the use of this International Standard Annex B  OECD principles and this International Standard Annex C  Correspondence between ISO 9001:2000, ISO 14001:2004 and this International Standard Annex A Correspondence between ISO 9001:2000 and ISO 14001:1996 Annex B Correspondence between ISO 14001:2004 and ISO 9001:2000 Bibliography Standards publications
and communications technology security — Part 1: Concepts and models for information and
