4.1 General requirements The organization shall establish, implement, operate, monitor, review, maintain and improve a documented ISMS within the context of the organization’s overall business activities and the risks they face. For the purposes of this International Standard the process used is based on the PDCA model shown in Figure 1.
4.2.1 Establish the ISMS The organization shall do the following.
a) Define the scope and boundaries of the ISMS in terms of the characteristics of the business, the organization, its location, assets, technology, and including details of and justification for any exclusions from the scope (see 1.2).
b) Define an ISMS policy in terms of the characteristics of the business, the organization, its location, assets and technology that:
c) Define the risk assessment approach of the organization.
d) Identify the risks.
e) Analyse and evaluate the risks.
f) Identify and evaluate options for the treatment of risks.
g) Select control objectives and controls for the treatment of risks.
h) Obtain management approval of the proposed residual risks.
i) Obtain management authorization to implement and operate the ISMS.
j) Prepare a Statement of Applicability.
2) Develop criteria for accepting risks and identify the acceptable levels of risk. (see 5.1f)). The risk assessment methodology selected shall ensure that risk assessments produce comparable and reproducible results.
Controls objectives and controls shall be selected and implemented to meet the requirements identified by the risk assessment and risk treatment process. This selection shall take account of the criteria for accepting risks (see 4.2.1c)) as well as legal, regulatory and contractual requirements.
4.2.2 Implement and operate the ISMS The organization shall do the following.
a) Formulate a risk treatment plan that identifies the appropriate management action, resources, responsibilities and priorities for managing information security risks (see 5).
b) Implement the risk treatment plan in order to achieve the identified control objectives, which includes consideration of funding and allocation of roles and responsibilities.
c) Implement controls selected in 4.2.1g) to meet the control objectives.
d) Define how to measure the effectiveness of the selected controls or groups of controls and specify how these measurements are to be used to assess control effectiveness to produce comparable and
e) Implement training and awareness programmes (see 5.2.2).
f) Manage operations of the ISMS.
g) Manage resources for the ISMS (see 5.2).
h) Implement procedures and other controls capable of enabling prompt detection of and response to security incidents (see 4.2.3).
4.2.3 Monitor and review the ISMS The organization shall do the following.
a) Execute monitoring and review procedures and other controls to:
b) Undertake regular reviews of the effectiveness of the ISMS (including meeting ISMS policy and
c) Measure the effectiveness of controls to verify that security requirements have been met.
d) Review risk assessments at planned intervals and review the level of residual risk and identified acceptable risk, taking into account changes to:
e) Conduct internal ISMS audits at planned intervals (see 6).
f) Undertake a management review of the ISMS on a regular basis to ensure that the scope remains adequate and improvements in the ISMS process are identified (see 7.1).
g) Update security plans to take into account the findings of monitoring and reviewing activities.
h) Record actions and events that could have an impact on the effectiveness or performance of the ISMS -see 4.3.3).
4.2.4 Maintain and improve the ISMS The organization shall regularly do the following.
a) Implement the identified improvements in the ISMS.
b) Take appropriate corrective and preventive actions in accordance with 8.2 and 8.3. Apply the lessons learnt from the security experiences of other organizations and those of the organization itself.
c) Communicate the actions and improvements to all interested parties with a level of detail appropriate to the circumstances and, as relevant, agree on how to proceed.
d) Ensure that the improvements achieve their intended objectives.
Records shall be established and maintained to provide evidence of conformity to requirements and the effective operation of the ISMS. They shall be protected and controlled. The ISMS shall take account of any relevant legal or regulatory requirements and contractual obligations. Records shall remain legible, readily identifiable and retrievable. The controls needed for the identification, storage, protection, retrieval, retention time and disposition of records shall be documented and implemented.
5.1 Management commitment Management shall provide evidence of its commitment to the establishment, implementation, operation, monitoring, review, maintenance and improvement of the ISMS by:
a) establishing an ISMS policy;
b) ensuring that ISMS objectives and plans are established;
c) establishing roles and responsibilities for information security;
d) communicating to the organization the importance of meeting information security objectives and
e) providing sufficient resources to establish, implement, operate, monitor, review, maintain and improve the ISMS (see 5.2.1);
f) deciding the criteria for accepting risks and for acceptable risk levels;
g) ensuring that internal ISMS audits are conducted (see 6); and
h) conducting management reviews of the ISMS (see 7).
5.2.1 Provision of resources The organization shall determine and provide the resources needed to:
a) establish, implement, operate, monitor, review, maintain and improve an ISMS;
b) ensure that information security procedures support the business requirements;
c) identify and address legal and regulatory requirements and contractual security obligations;
d) maintain adequate security by correct application of all implemented controls;
e) carry out reviews when necessary, and to react appropriately to the results of these reviews; and
f) where required, improve the effectiveness of the ISMS.
5.2.2 Training, awareness and competence The organization shall ensure that all personnel who are assigned responsibilities defined in the ISMS are competent to perform the required tasks by:
a) determining the necessary competencies for personnel performing work effecting the ISMS;
b) providing training or taking other actions (e.g. employing competent personnel) to satisfy these needs;
c) evaluating the effectiveness of the actions taken; and
d) maintaining records of education, training, skills, experience and qualifications (see 4.3.3).
6 Internal ISMS audits The organization shall conduct internal ISMS audits at planned intervals to determine whether the control objectives, controls, processes and procedures of its ISMS:
a) conform to the requirements of this International Standard and relevant legislation or regulations;
b) conform to the identified information security requirements;
c) are effectively implemented and maintained; and
d) perform as expected.
An audit programme shall be planned, taking into consideration the status and importance of the processes and areas to be audited, as well as the results of previous audits. The audit criteria, scope, frequency and methods shall be defined. Selection of auditors and conduct of audits shall ensure objectivity and impartiality of the audit process. Auditors shall not audit their own work.
The responsibilities and requirements for planning and conducting audits, and for reporting results and maintaining records (see 4.3.3) shall be defined in a documented procedure. The management responsible for the area being audited shall ensure that actions are taken without undue delay to eliminate detected nonconformities and their causes. Follow-up activities shall include the verification of the actions taken and the reporting of verification results (see 8).
7.1 General Management shall review the organization’s ISMS at planned intervals (at least once a year) to ensure its continuing suitability, adequacy and effectiveness. This review shall include assessing opportunities for improvement and the need for changes to the ISMS, including the information security policy and information security objectives. The results of the reviews shall be clearly documented and records shall be maintained
a) results of ISMS audits and reviews;
b) feedback from interested parties;
c) techniques, products or procedures, which could be used in the organization to improve the ISMS performance and effectiveness;
d) status of preventive and corrective actions;
e) vulnerabilities or threats not adequately addressed in the previous risk assessment;
f) results from effectiveness measurements;
g) follow-up actions from previous management reviews;
h) any changes that could affect the ISMS; and
i) recommendations for improvement.
8.1 Continual improvement The organization shall continually improve the effectiveness of the ISMS through the use of the information security policy, information security objectives, audit results, analysis of monitored events, corrective and preventive actions and management review (see 7).
8.2 Corrective action The organization shall take action to eliminate the cause of nonconformities with the ISMS requirements in order to prevent recurrence. The documented procedure for corrective action shall define requirements for:
a) identifying nonconformities;
b) determining the causes of nonconformities;
c) evaluating the need for actions to ensure that nonconformities do not recur;
d) determining and implementing the corrective action needed;
e) recording results of action taken (see 4.3.3); and
f) reviewing of corrective action taken.
8.3 Preventive action The organization shall determine action to eliminate the cause of potential nonconformities with the ISMS requirements in order to prevent their occurrence. Preventive actions taken shall be appropriate to the impact of the potential problems. The documented procedure for preventive action shall define requirements for:
a) identifying potential nonconformities and their causes;
b) evaluating the need for action to prevent occurrence of nonconformities;
c) determining and implementing preventive action needed;
d) recording results of action taken (see 4.3.3); and
e) reviewing of preventive action taken.
Control Management shall actively support security within the organization through clear direction, demonstrated commitment, explicit assignment, and acknowledgment of information security responsibilities.
Agreements with third parties involving accessing, processing, communicating or managing the organization’s information or information processing facilities, or adding products or services to information processing facilities shall cover all relevant security requirements.
As part of their contractual obligation, employees, contractors and third party users shall agree and sign the terms and conditions of their employment contract, which shall state their and the organization’s responsibilities for information security.
Control Management shall require employees, contractors and third party users to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures of the organization.
All employees of the organization and, where relevant, contractors and third party users shall receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in organizational policies and procedures, as relevant for their job function.
Control All employees, contractors and third party users shall return all of the organization’s assets in their possession upon termination of their employment, contract or agreement.
Control Physical protection and guidelines for working in secure areas shall be designed and applied.
Control Equipment, information or software shall not be taken off-site without prior authorization.
Control The services, reports and records provided by the third party shall be regularly monitored and reviewed, and audits shall be carried out regularly.
Control Where the use of mobile code is authorized, the configuration shall ensure that the authorized mobile code operates according to a clearly defined security policy, and unauthorized mobile code shall be prevented from executing.
Control Management shall review users’ access rights at regular intervals using a formal process.
Control Users shall ensure that unattended equipment has appropriate protection.
Control Users shall only be provided with access to the services that they have been specifically authorized to use.
Control Groups of information services, users, and information systems shall be segregated on networks.
Control All users shall have a unique identifier (user ID) for their personal use only, and a suitable authentication technique shall be chosen to substantiate the claimed identity of a user.
Control Inactive sessions shall shut down after a defined period of inactivity.
Control Sensitive systems shall have a dedicated (isolated) computing environment.
Statements of business requirements for new information systems, or enhancements to existing information systems shall specify the requirements for security controls.
Control Managers shall ensure that all security procedures within their area of responsibility are carried out correctly to achieve compliance with security policies and standards.
Response Participants should act in a timely and co-operative manner to prevent, detect and respond to security incidents.
Risk assessment Participants should conduct risk assessments.
Security design and implementation Participants should incorporate security as an essential element of information systems and networks.
Security management Participants should adopt a comprehensive approach to security management.
Reassessment Participants should review and reassess the security of information systems and networks, and make appropriate modifications to security policies, practices, measures and procedures.
