The ISMS is designed to ensure the selection of adequate and proportionate security controls that protect information assets and give confidence to interested parties. NOTE 1: References to ‘business’ in this International Standard should be interpreted broadly to mean those activities that are core to the purposes for the organization’s existence.
4) transferring the associated business risks to other parties, e.g. insurers, suppliers. g) Select control objectives and controls for the treatment of risks. Controls objectives and controls shall be selected and implemented to meet the requirements identified by the risk assessment and risk treatment process. This selection shall take account of the criteria for accepting risks (see 4.2.1c)) as well as legal, regulatory and contractual requirements.
Controls objectives and controls shall be selected and implemented to meet the requirements identified by the risk assessment and risk treatment process. This selection shall take account of the criteria for accepting risks (see 4.2.1c)) as well as legal, regulatory and contractual requirements. The control objectives and controls from Annex A shall be selected as part of this process as suitable to cover these requirements.
NOTE:  Annex A contains a comprehensive list of control objectives and controls that have been found to be commonly relevant in organizations. Users of this International Standard are directed to Annex A as a starting point for control selection to ensure that no important control options are overlooked. h) Obtain management approval of the proposed residual risks. i) Obtain management authorization to implement and operate the ISMS. j) Prepare a Statement of Applicability. A Statement of Applicability shall be prepared that includes the following:
4.3.2 Control of documents Documents required by the ISMS shall be protected and controlled. A documented procedure shall be established to define the management actions needed to:
a) approve documents for adequacy prior to issue;
b) review and update documents as necessary and re-approve documents;
c) ensure that changes and the current revision status of documents are identified;
d) ensure that relevant versions of applicable documents are available at points of use;
e) ensure that documents remain legible and readily identifiable;
f) ensure that documents are available to those who need them, and are transferred, stored and ultimately disposed of in accordance with the procedures applicable to their classification;
g) ensure that documents of external origin are identified;
h) ensure that the distribution of documents is controlled;
i) prevent the unintended use of obsolete documents; and
j) apply suitable identification to them if they are retained for any purpose.
4.3.3 Control of records Records shall be established and maintained to provide evidence of conformity to requirements and the effective operation of the ISMS. They shall be protected and controlled. The ISMS shall take account of any relevant legal or regulatory requirements and contractual obligations. Records shall remain legible, readily identifiable and retrievable. The controls needed for the identification, storage, protection, retrieval, retention time and disposition of records shall be documented and implemented.
Records shall be established and maintained to provide evidence of conformity to requirements and the effective operation of the ISMS. They shall be protected and controlled. The ISMS shall take account of any relevant legal or regulatory requirements and contractual obligations. Records shall remain legible, readily identifiable and retrievable. The controls needed for the identification, storage, protection, retrieval, retention time and disposition of records shall be documented and implemented. Records shall be kept of the performance of the process as outlined in 4.2 and of all occurrences of significant security incidents related to the ISMS.
The organization shall conduct internal ISMS audits at planned intervals to determine whether the control objectives, controls, processes and procedures of its ISMS: a) conform to the requirements of this International Standard and relevant legislation or regulations; b) conform to the identified information security requirements; c) are effectively implemented and maintained; and d) perform as expected. An audit programme shall be planned, taking into consideration the status and importance of the processes and areas to be audited, as well as the results of previous audits. The audit criteria, scope, frequency and methods shall be defined. Selection of auditors and conduct of audits shall ensure objectivity and impartiality of the audit process. Auditors shall not audit their own work.
The responsibilities and requirements for planning and conducting audits, and for reporting results and maintaining records (see 4.3.3) shall be defined in a documented procedure.
Management shall review the organization’s ISMS at planned intervals (at least once a year) to ensure its continuing suitability, adequacy and effectiveness. This review shall include assessing opportunities for improvement and the need for changes to the ISMS, including the information security policy and information security objectives. The results of the reviews shall be clearly documented and records shall be maintained
a) results of ISMS audits and reviews;
b) feedback from interested parties;
c) techniques, products or procedures, which could be used in the organization to improve the ISMS performance and effectiveness;
d) status of preventive and corrective actions;
e) vulnerabilities or threats not adequately addressed in the previous risk assessment;
f) results from effectiveness measurements;
g) follow-up actions from previous management reviews;
h) any changes that could affect the ISMS; and
i) recommendations for improvement.
The organization shall determine action to eliminate the cause of potential nonconformities with the ISMS requirements in order to prevent their occurrence. Preventive actions taken shall be appropriate to the impact of the potential problems. The documented procedure for preventive action shall define requirements for:
a) identifying potential nonconformities and their causes;
b) evaluating the need for action to prevent occurrence of nonconformities;
c) determining and implementing preventive action needed;
d) recording results of action taken (see 4.3.3); and
e) reviewing of preventive action taken.
The organization shall identify changed risks and identify preventive action requirements focusing attention on significantly changed risks. The priority of preventive actions shall be determined based on the results of the risk assessment.
ISO/IEC 17799:2005 Clauses 5 to 15. The lists in these tables are not exhaustive and an organization may consider that additional control objectives and controls are necessary. Control objectives and controls from these tables shall be selected as part of the ISMS process specified in 4.2.1.
Control An information security policy document shall be approved by management, and published and communicated to all employees and relevant external parties.
Control The information security policy shall be reviewed at planned intervals or if significant changes occur to ensure its continuing suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness.
Control Information security activities shall be co-ordinated by representatives from different parts of the organization with relevant roles and job functions.
Control All information security responsibilities shall be clearly defined.
A management authorization process for new information processing facilities shall be defined and implemented.
Requirements for confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements reflecting the organization’s needs for the protection of information shall be identified and regularly reviewed.
Control Appropriate contacts with relevant authorities shall be maintained.
Appropriate contacts with special interest groups or other specialist security forums and professional associations shall be maintained.
The organization’s approach to managing information security and its implementation (i.e. control objectives, controls, policies, processes, and procedures for information security) shall be reviewed independently at planned intervals, or when significant changes to the security implementation occur.
The risks to the organization’s information and information processing facilities from business processes involving external parties shall be identified and appropriate controls implemented before granting access.
Control All identified security requirements shall be addressed before giving customers access to the organization’s information or assets.
Control All assets shall be clearly identified and an inventory of all important assets drawn up and maintained.
All information and assets associated with information processing facilities shall be ‘owned’ 3) by a designated part of the organization.
Rules for the acceptable use of information and assets associated with information processing facilities shall be identified, documented, and implemented.
Control Information shall be classified in terms of its value, legal requirements, sensitivity and criticality to the organization.
An appropriate set of procedures for information labeling and handling shall be developed and implemented in accordance with the classification scheme adopted by the organization.
Security roles and responsibilities of employees, contractors and third party users shall be defined and documented in accordance with the organization’s information security policy.
Background verification checks on all candidates for employment, contractors, and third party users shall be carried out in accordance with relevant laws, regulations and ethics, and proportional to the business requirements, the classification of the information to be accessed, and the perceived risks.
Control There shall be a formal disciplinary process for employees who have committed a security breach.
Responsibilities for performing employment termination or change of employment shall be clearly defined and assigned.
The access rights of all employees, contractors and third party users to information and information processing facilities shall be removed upon termination of their employment, contract or agreement, or adjusted upon change.
Security perimeters (barriers such as walls, card controlled entry gates or manned reception desks) shall be used to protect areas that contain information and information processing facilities.
Control Secure areas shall be protected by appropriate entry controls to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed access.
Control Physical security for offices, rooms, and facilities shall be designed and applied.
Physical protection against damage from fire, flood, earthquake, explosion, civil unrest, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster shall be designed and applied.
Access points such as delivery and loading areas and other points where unauthorized persons may enter the premises shall be controlled and, if possible, isolated from information processing facilities to avoid unauthorized access.
Control Equipment shall be sited or protected to reduce the risks from environmental threats and hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access.
Control Equipment shall be protected from power failures and other disruptions caused by failures in supporting utilities.
Power and telecommunications cabling carrying data or supporting information services shall be protected from interception or damage.
Control Equipment shall be correctly maintained to ensure its continued availability and integrity.
Control Security shall be applied to off-site equipment taking into account the different risks of working outside the organization’s premises.
Control All items of equipment containing storage media shall be checked to ensure that any sensitive data and licensed software has been removed or securely overwritten prior to disposal.
Control Operating procedures shall be documented, maintained, and made available to all users who need them.
Control Changes to information processing facilities and systems shall be controlled.
Control Duties and areas of responsibility shall be segregated to reduce opportunities for unauthorized or unintentional modification or misuse of the organization’s assets.
Control Development, test and operational facilities shall be separated to reduce the risks of unauthorised access or changes to the operational system.
Control It shall be ensured that the security controls, service definitions and delivery levels included in the third party service delivery agreement are implemented, operated, and maintained by the third party.
The services, reports and records provided by the third party shall be regularly monitored and reviewed, and audits shall be carried out regularly.
Changes to the provision of services, including maintaining and improving existing information security policies, procedures and controls, shall be managed, taking account of the criticality of business systems and processes involved and re-assessment of risks.
Control The use of resources shall be monitored, tuned, and projections made of future capacity requirements to ensure the required system performance.
Acceptance criteria for new information systems, upgrades, and new versions shall be established and suitable tests of the system(s) carried out during development and prior to acceptance.
Detection, prevention, and recovery controls to protect against malicious code and appropriate user awareness procedures shall be implemented.
Control Back-up copies of information and software shall be taken and tested regularly in accordance with the agreed backup policy.
Control Networks shall be adequately managed and controlled, in order to be protected from threats, and to maintain security for the systems and applications using the network, including information in transit.
Security features, service levels, and management requirements of all network services shall be identified and included in any network services agreement, whether these services are provided in-house or outsourced.
Control There shall be procedures in place for the management of removable media.
Control Media shall be disposed of securely and safely when no longer required, using formal procedures.
Control Procedures for the handling and storage of information shall be established to protect this information from unauthorized disclosure or misuse.
Control System documentation shall be protected against unauthorized access.
Control Formal exchange policies, procedures, and controls shall be in place to protect the exchange of information through the use of all types of communication facilities.
Control Agreements shall be established for the exchange of information and software between the organization and external parties.
Control Media containing information shall be protected against unauthorized access, misuse or corruption during transportation beyond an organization’s physical boundaries.
Control Information involved in electronic messaging shall be appropriately protected.
Control Policies and procedures shall be developed and implemented to protect information associated with the interconnection of business information systems.
Information involved in electronic commerce passing over public networks shall be protected from fraudulent activity, contract dispute, and unauthorized disclosure and modification.
Control Information involved in on-line transactions shall be protected to prevent incomplete transmission, mis-routing, unauthorized message alteration, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized message duplication or replay.
The integrity of information being made available on a publicly available system shall be protected to prevent unauthorized modification.
Audit logs recording user activities, exceptions, and information security events shall be produced and kept for an agreed period to assist in future investigations and access control monitoring.
Procedures for monitoring use of information processing facilities shall be established and the results of the monitoring activities reviewed regularly.
Control Logging facilities and log information shall be protected against tampering and unauthorized access.
Control System administrator and system operator activities shall be logged.
Control Faults shall be logged, analyzed, and appropriate action taken.
The clocks of all relevant information processing systems within an organization or security domain shall be synchronized with an agreed accurate time source.
Control An access control policy shall be established, documented, and reviewed based on business and security requirements for access.
Control There shall be a formal user registration and de-registration procedure in place for granting and revoking access to all information systems and services.
Control The allocation and use of privileges shall be restricted and controlled.
Control The allocation of passwords shall be controlled through a formal management process.
Control Users shall be required to follow good security practices in the selection and use of passwords.
A clear desk policy for papers and removable storage media and a clear screen policy for information processing facilities shall be adopted.
Control Appropriate authentication methods shall be used to control access by remote users.
Control Automatic equipment identification shall be considered as a means to authenticate connections from specific locations and equipment.
Physical and logical access to diagnostic and configuration ports shall be controlled.
For shared networks, especially those extending across the organization’s boundaries, the capability of users to connect to the network shall be restricted, in line with the access control policy and requirements of the business applications (see 11.1).
Control Routing controls shall be implemented for networks to ensure that computer connections and information flows do not breach the access control policy of the business applications.
Control Access to operating systems shall be controlled by a secure log-on procedure.
All users shall have a unique identifier (user ID) for their personal use only, and a suitable authentication technique shall be chosen to substantiate the claimed identity of a user.
Control Systems for managing passwords shall be interactive and shall ensure quality passwords.
The use of utility programs that might be capable of overriding system and application controls shall be restricted and tightly controlled.
Control Restrictions on connection times shall be used to provide additional security for high-risk applications.
Access to information and application system functions by users and support personnel shall be restricted in accordance with the defined access control policy.
Control A formal policy shall be in place, and appropriate security measures shall be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication facilities.
Control A policy, operational plans and procedures shall be developed and implemented for teleworking activities.
Control Data input to applications shall be validated to ensure that this data is correct and appropriate.
Control Validation checks shall be incorporated into applications to detect any corruption of information through processing errors or deliberate acts.
Requirements for ensuring authenticity and protecting message integrity in applications shall be identified, and appropriate controls identified and implemented.
Control Data output from an application shall be validated to ensure that the processing of stored information is correct and appropriate to the circumstances.
A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information shall be developed and implemented.
Control Key management shall be in place to support the organization’s use of cryptographic techniques.
Control There shall be procedures in place to control the installation of software on operational systems.
Control Test data shall be selected carefully, and protected and controlled.
Control Access to program source code shall be restricted.
Control The implementation of changes shall be controlled by the use of formal change control procedures.
When operating systems are changed, business critical applications shall be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on organizational operations or security.
Control Modifications to software packages shall be discouraged, limited to necessary changes, and all changes shall be strictly controlled.
Control Opportunities for information leakage shall be prevented.
Control Outsourced software development shall be supervised and monitored by the organization.
Timely information about technical vulnerabilities of information systems being used shall be obtained, the organization's exposure to such vulnerabilities evaluated, and appropriate measures taken to address the associated risk.
Control Information security events shall be reported through appropriate management channels as quickly as possible.
All employees, contractors and third party users of information systems and services shall be required to note and report any observed or suspected security weaknesses in systems or services.
Control Management responsibilities and procedures shall be established to ensure a quick, effective, and orderly response to information security incidents.
Control There shall be mechanisms in place to enable the types, volumes, and costs of information security incidents to be quantified and monitored.
Where a follow-up action against a person or organization after an information security incident involves legal action (either civil or criminal), evidence shall be collected, retained, and presented to conform to the rules for evidence laid down in the relevant jurisdiction(s).
Control A managed process shall be developed and maintained for business continuity throughout the organization that addresses the information security requirements needed for the organization’s business continuity.
Control Events that can cause interruptions to business processes shall be identified, along with the probability and impact of such interruptions and their consequences for information security.
Control Plans shall be developed and implemented to maintain or restore operations and ensure availability of information at the required level and in the required time scales following interruption to, or failure of, critical business processes.
Control A single framework of business continuity plans shall be maintained to ensure all plans are consistent, to consistently address information security requirements, and to identify priorities for testing and maintenance.
Control Business continuity plans shall be tested and updated regularly to ensure that they are up to date and effective.
All relevant statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements and the organization’s approach to meet these requirements shall be explicitly defined, documented, and kept up to date for each information system and the organization.
Control Appropriate procedures shall be implemented to ensure compliance with legislative, regulatory, and contractual requirements on the use of material in respect of which there may be intellectual property rights and on the use of proprietary software products.
Control Important records shall be protected from loss, destruction and falsification, in accordance with statutory, regulatory, contractual, and business requirements.
Control Data protection and privacy shall be ensured as required in relevant legislation, regulations, and, if applicable, contractual clauses.
Control Users shall be deterred from using information processing facilities for unauthorized purposes.
Control Cryptographic controls shall be used in compliance with all relevant agreements, laws, and regulations.
Control Information systems shall be regularly checked for compliance with security implementation standards.
Audit requirements and activities involving checks on operational systems shall be carefully planned and agreed to minimize the risk of disruptions to business processes.
Control Access to information systems audit tools shall be protected to prevent any possible misuse or compromise.
Awareness Participants should be aware of the need for security of information systems and networks and what they can do to enhance security.
Check phase (see 4.2.3 and 6 to 7.3) where regular reviews should be undertaken to check the effectiveness of the information security management system, and improving the security is part of the Act phase (see 4.2.4 and 8.1 to 8.3).
